Time will come back in this video we're quickly going to talk about the cereal type.
We've learned how to create auto incrementing fields by using sequences.
And that was a bit complicated and required a few steps.
Fortunately now that we know how that works I can tell you that Pascua sequel has a shortcut so you
don't have to create a sequence.
And you know and give it to the owner and set it to start at a certain number and things like that instead
when you create your table to medical test you can just type in an ID type serial and that creates the
sequence for you and all that stuff.
So this would create an auto incriminating IDs starting from 1.
I think maybe it's zero.
One of those I think is one.
And then a name column which is a text and text is just the same as character varying but it doesn't
have an upper limit in terms of the size.
So if you want to limit the size remember to use connecter varying then you can add card to varying
and then you can type in the upper limit of the size of the field.
And but if you don't want an upper limit you can use text.
So this creates a serial type and it gives it a primary key constraint.
And then the street name there
and naturally have to retype that.
And there we go.
So that creates your table and then when we insert into Test am and here we are going to only specify
the name remember that name values Jose.
And of course this has to be a single quotation mark apologies
and then that gives it the ID one.
So it is one it is not zero.
OK.
So this is how you can simplify that sequence and auto incrementing IDs.
But I did not want to introduce this to you initially because the sequence is how the serial type is
beat in the background so it is important that you know that the sequence is there in the background
and therefore And that's how the ID is generated.
And this one is only going to generate numbers one after another and and that's it.
So the sequence itself does not guarantee unique and numbers being generated it just guarantees that
there one after another.
So if you want to make sure that the ID is always unique you can give it the primary key constraint
or you can give it a unique constraint in the case of this table.
We've given it to the primary key constraint.
So if the cereal field generates a number that is already there it will just go into the next one.
So that's going next as well.
OK.
That's everything for this video.
That's how you use the serial data type.
And I'll see you on the next video.